Add TPM2 systemd-cryptenroll to Tips and Tricks (#176)
fedora-silverblue/silverblue-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/tips-and-tricks.adoc

  $ alias evince="flatpak run org.gnome.Evince"
    # or alias evince="org.gnome.Evince"
  $ evince

== Enabling TPM2 for LUKS 

It is possible to use the TPM2 device in your machine to automatically decrypt your LUKS-encrypted device. 

First, enable the needed initramfs and kernel features: 

  $ sudo rpm-ostree kargs --append=rd.luks.options=tpm2-device=auto

>   $ sudo rpm-ostree initramfs --enable --arg=-a --arg=systemd-pcrphase

Reviewer: Might need to add a warning here that doing this will overwrite any existing initramfs args that have been previously specified?

Then, enroll the device: 

>   $ sudo systemd-cryptenroll --tpm2-device=auto --tpm2-pcrs=0+7 /your/boot/device

Reviewer: I think `/your/boot/device` is confusing. It makes it sound like you should specify your `/boot` or ESP device here, when actually it's your LUKS block device.

Maybe `/your/luks/device` is better?

And then also add a follow-up paragraph that explains you can determine which device that is by running `sudo cryptsetup status /dev/mapper/luks-*` or looking in `/etc/crypttab`.

Author: added some steps around finding the proper device, changed my shorthand for the device location

  $ alias evince="flatpak run org.gnome.Evince"
    # or alias evince="org.gnome.Evince"
  $ evince

== Enabling TPM2 for LUKS 

> It is possible to use the TPM2 device in your machine to automatically decrypt your LUKS-encrypted device. It is important to note a few things regarding this setup: first, it is trading security for convenience. Anyone who has access to both the disk and the TPM2 device can unlock your data. Second, it is crucial to keep a LUKS passphrase in addition to the TPM2 device that you can use to unlock the LUKS device; if you update BIOS, or the kernel shim, or make other substantial changes to your device, the TPM will refuse to sign your session and you will fall back to manually entering a LUKS passphrase. In this case, you can re-enable TPM2 for unlocking by re-running the enroll command below. This tip assumes you have a single LUKS device created during the Anaconda installer; if you have more than one LUKS device, you will need to correctly identify the device you want to enroll. 

Reviewer: This paragraph is a bit of a wall right now I think :D

How about:

```suggestion
It's possible to use your machine's TPM2 device to automatically decrypt your LUKS-encrypted boot disk.

It's important to understand that by doing this, you are trading security for convenience. When your LUKS device can be decrypted automatically by your TPM2 device, you are making this device more vulnerable to an ["evil maid attack"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evil_maid_attack). Anybody with physical access to this machine will be able to access the data.

It's crucial to keep a LUKS passphrase *in addition to* the TPM2 enrollment. If you update BIOS, the `shim` package, or make changes to your BIOS settings (in particular your Secure Boot configuration), the TPM2 unlock will not work and you will fall back to manually entering a LUKS passphrase. In this case, you can re-enable TPM2 for unlocking by re-running the enroll command below.

This tip assumes you have a single LUKS device created during the Anaconda installer; if you have more than one LUKS device, you will need to correctly identify the boot device you want to enroll. 
```

> To set up TPM2 unlocking, first, find the LUKS device you want to enroll. This is probably in /etc/cryptsetup; you can also use `cryptsetup status /dev/mappper/luks*` to identify the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up TPM2 unlocking, first, find the LUKS device you want to enroll. This is probably in `/etc/crypttab`. You can also use `sudo cryptsetup status /dev/mapper/luks*` to identify the device.
```

> Next, enable the required initramfs and kernel features. Note that the initramfs command below will overwrite any other initramfs changes you have made: 

Reviewer: I think the initramfs section should be moved to the "first step", with a note that [it's only necessary for F40](https://gitlab.com/fedora/ostree/sig/-/issues/33)

  $ sudo rpm-ostree kargs --append=rd.luks.options=tpm2-device=auto
  $ sudo rpm-ostree initramfs --enable --arg=-a --arg=systemd-pcrphase

> Then, using the device you identified with 'crpysetup status' previously, enroll the device: 

Reviewer: (Assuming that the previous suggestion to reorder the initramfs customization has happened, so that contextually the following changes make sense)

```suggestion
 Enroll the identified device: 
```

  $ sudo systemd-cryptenroll --tpm2-device=auto --tpm2-pcrs=0+7 /dev/mapper/luks-your-device

> Reboot; you should not be prompted to enter your LUKS passphrase on boot. 

Reviewer 2: Let's add a note saying that you will need to re-run this command every time you update your firmware or bootloader?

>   $ sudo systemd-cryptenroll --tpm2-device=auto --tpm2-pcrs=0+7 /dev/boot-device

Reviewer 3: Is 0+7 secure enough? Correct me if I am wrong, but changing the kernel parameters would allow to mount the disk and change the root password.

Reviewer 2: It's not, but it's the bset we can do right now as the kernel parameters change on every boot as ostree includes the hash of the deployment to boot in the kernel parameters.

Reviewer 4: I don't think it's a good idea to recommend this because it will appear to work for a while, until such time as you update shim, and then it will break.

We discovered this in e.g. https://github.com/containers/bootc/issues/421#issuecomment-2062771415

At least if you have this it needs to have a big warning label about this...

Reviewer: Yes, the fact that the TPM2-backed credential can stop working is well understood and has been discussed a few times in the diff discussions in this PR already

Reviewer: Also, I think the warning should be sufficient but some documentation *should* be merged letting folks know how to use this. `shim` updates seem to be about as regular as UEFI platform f/w updates from my perspective. I boot my computer daily, so I'm certainly glad I only have to type my password once every 500-1000 boots nowadays, rather than every time :sweat_smile:

To set up TPM2 unlocking, first, find the LUKS device you want to enroll. This is probably in /etc/cryptsetup; you can also use `cryptsetup status /dev/mappper/luks*` to identify the device.

Next, enable the required initramfs and kernel features. Note that the initramfs command below will overwrite any other initramfs changes you have made: 

  $ sudo rpm-ostree kargs --append=rd.luks.options=tpm2-device=auto
  $ sudo rpm-ostree initramfs --enable --arg=-a --arg=systemd-pcrphase

Then, enroll the device: 

>   $ sudo systemd-cryptenroll --tpm2-device=auto --tpm2-pcrs=0+7 /dev/mapper/luks-your-device

Reviewer: `/dev/mapper/luks-your-device` here is confusing, because this argument should be the *underlying device* that your luks container lives in. e.g for me it's `/dev/nvme0n1p3`

Author: corrected; the 'cryptsetup status' command will show the correct device to enroll
